have you ever thought about how
weird humans are I think about
how weird you are i mean most
mammals are all hairy but we're
not
let's retrace so it's true that
our ancestors were actually
pretty hairy but what happened
to all that firm
hey guys Julia and Julia here
for dnews
so we got a lot of questions
from you guys in the comments on
facebook on Twitter one we've
received a few times is why do
we have eyebrows
thanks to stabilization and
james wright who both ask this
one in our recent evolution of
toes video
but to answer that question
we've got to explore why we lost
our fur in the first place
researchers believe that over 3
million years ago we looked more
like this
but obviously we evolved out of
our thick coats why help
researchers believe that as the
climate change we moved out of
the trees under the hot
scorching savannah and according
to one study published in the
journal Current anthropology
around 1.2 million years ago to
cope with the heat
we lost forever and started
sweating a uniquely efficient
way to cool off
one study published in the
Proceedings of the Royal Society
B suggest that while we lost
most of our hair through natural
selection sexual selection
finish the job
the researchers believe that
humans like naked partners not
for obvious reasons but because
it helps them to see whether
they have parasites are not
parasites like fleas or ticks
can cause deadly diseases like
typhoid
so bare skin means a healthier
mate but there's a different
study published in the journal
Biology Letters suggest that we
kept some of our body hair to
spot some of those bugs and this
study researchers shape have
been pair of volunteers arm and
put a bed bug on their skin
wait how did they get people to
agree to the station hey anyway
is the researchers noticed that
the volunteers spotted the bug
more quickly on their hairy our
parts
the men in the study were
actually better at spotting the
bugs and the women so maybe
women selected dates with more
hair because they can see their
parasites on them
ok what is it just me or are
those two completely conflicting
studies
yeah they are these are two
competing theories were really
not sure whether hair helps or
hurts when it comes to parasites
so as usual
more research is needed but
there's actually another
possibility here
maybe men are hairier because
women
like it some researchers think
that since hair is controlled by
hormones like testosterone men
are hairier right and
testosterone also increases the
size of hair follicles on the
face
I think beard and a maid of
chest hair could be a sign of
how much testosterone that guy
has
speaking of facial hair do you
know why I have these
magnificent eyebrows
don't look at me like that I'm
not the only one wondering well
researchers think they work
really well I keeping sweat out
of our eyes which would be
useful as we evolved to thrive
in a hot climate and they're
great for nonverbal
communication
so we also can't not talk about
body hair without talking about
hair in our armpits and pubic
area's true
turns out researchers think here
in these areas does double duty
first and wicks away moisture
which is super helpful for
dealing with the savannahs on it
also might trap sense which is
actually a good thing right
maybe these hairs evolved to
trap the human musk to appeal
potential meets while human
pheromones haven't been found
they have been theorized right
like how some studies show that
women prefer the armpit odor of
men with compatible immune
systems so armpit hair could
trap more of this some alluring
scent or some researchers think
because pubic hair growth
coincides with puberty
maybe it's an outward sign of
sexual maturity like an
advertisement saying look at me
i'm ready to meet
and speaking of meeting pubic
hair might serve as a cushion
during sexy times that protects
the genitals from abrasions or
micro tears
whereas protection from things
like dirt so while some people
might think body hair is gross
we really don't have as much as
we used to
and what we do have is a very
important job to do so put that
razor down or actually don't
because it might be that your
beard is really gross
trace explains why over here
researchers sprayed beards with
non infectious bacteria and
allowed them to rest in the hair
for a while then they wash their
beards
after cleaning there was still
enough bacteria to spread to
other people
okay so you were like an uncle
fester or cousin it let me know
down in the comments below or if
you have a question go ahead and
leave it down in the comments to
and use the hashtag ask dnews
yeah